# 1.X.X Foundation of User Experience Design

Read [[General Info]] before starting off

Here are some helpful UX design resources to keep in mind as you learn. You might even want to bookmark some of these websites on your computer to review on an ongoing basis!

-   [Interaction Design Foundation](https://www.interaction-design.org/literature): A library of open-source UX design resources, including new articles published every day. There are also local [meet-ups](https://www.interaction-design.org/events/ux-meetups) (virtual and in-person) that are free to attend and open to everyone. 
    
-   [Adobe XD Ideas](https://xd.adobe.com/ideas/?sdid=61PM7WSH&mv=social&mv2=ownsoc-org "Adobe XD Ideas"): A blog curated for entry-level UX designers. You’ll find inspiring examples of great design, valuable career tips, and more.
    
-   [UX Collective on Medium](https://uxdesign.cc/): An article platform with stories on user experience, visual design, product design, and more. Articles on Medium are written by a large variety of writers and cover a range of topics. 
    
-   [Nielsen Norman Group](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/): Research-based UX guidance, including a ton of helpful articles about the design process, research methods, and user testing, which you'll learn about later in the certificate program.

**Week 1: Introducing user experience design.** You’ll start to explore the world of UX and the factors that contribute to great user experience designs in mobile apps, websites, and other products. You'll understand the responsibilities of UX designers and teams that UX designers often work with. You’ll also explore job opportunities and career paths that will be available to you upon your completion of this certificate program. 

**Week 2: Getting to know common terms, tools, and frameworks in UX design.** UX designers always put the user first. In this part of the course, you'll be introduced to user-centered design and other common frameworks that UX designers use on-the-job, like the design process and the five elements of UX design. You'll also learn about the importance of equity and accessibility when designing. In addition, you'll learn how to think across platforms to design seamless user experiences. 

**Week 3: Joining design sprints.** UX designers often host design sprints to define the direction of a product. You'll learn about the phases of a design sprint and how to plan and participate in one. You'll also learn about retrospectives, which is a way to constructively reflect on a design sprint and improve next time. 

**Week 4:  Building a professional presence.** As the digital world continues to expand, companies recognize that designing good user experiences is a necessity, which is why UX design is a high-growth and in-demand job field. The key to landing a UX design job is a strong portfolio that showcases your work. In this part of the course, you'll start to create a portfolio website and develop a professional presence in online design communities. You’ll also begin to establish your personal brand and network with UX designers.

# 1.1.1
### The basics of user experience design
User experience -  How a person, the user, feels about interacting with, or experiencing, a product
Product - A good, service, or a feature (eg: controller, bag of chips, mobile app,etc)

For a good user experience the product should be - 
- Usable - the design structure and purpose of the product are clear to everyone.
- Equitable - design should be useful and marketable to people with diverse abilities and backgrounds. 
- Enjoyable -  making design enjoyable to use, which creates a positive connection between the user and the product.
- Useful - have some utility/productive design that helps make the app easier to use.

Detailed info on these point can be found in [[reference slide3]]

Basically, it comes down to this: When people like a product, they use that product a lot, and they recommended it to their friends. And more people using the product means better business for the company. Plus, when users have a good experience with the product, they're more likely to have a positive opinion of the company that made it. A win-win for the user and the business. 
Think of an app you recommended to a friend, think about why you did so.
For me it was discord and i think 100% due to the user interface and design and also for the great utility it provides.

### Jobs in the field of UX
- Rather than sharing similar work histories, UX designers tend to share common skills and interests instead.
- A lot of UX designers have a good sense for visuals, which means you recognize when an image fits or doesn't fit in the space or what colors complement each other.
- UX designers tend to be curious about people and like thinking about how people's minds work. They also enjoy figuring out how people use products and how to make those products easier to use. they also tend to be empathetic. 

> Empathy : the ability to understand someone else's feelings or thoughts in a situation.

#### Different types of designers
1. Interaction designers --> Focus on designing the experience of a product and how it functions.
2. Visual designers    ---> Focus on how the product or technology looks.
3. Motion designers  ---> They think about what it feels like for a user to move through a product.
4. Graphic designers  ---> Focus on the physical appearance of a product.
5. UX designers          ---> Focus on how user interact with a product.
6. UX researcher        ---> Conduct studies or interviews that help us learn how people use a product.
7. UX writers               ---> Think about how to make the language within a product clearer.
8. Production designers --> Make sure first and final designs match in the finished product materials and that the assets are ready to be handed off to the engineering team.
9. UX engineers         ---> Translate the design's intent into a fucntioning experience.
10. UX program managers-> Ensure clear and timely communication so that the process of building a useful product moves smoothly from start to finish.

Detailed info on these roles present in -> [[reference slide1]]

### Product Devlopment life cycle

This is the process used to take a product from an idea to reality. it has five stages:
1. **brainstorm**: conduct research and interviews.
2. **define**: Using the insights from brainstorm stage and starting to narrow the focus.
3. **design**: Implementing insights into new designs using various tools.
4. **test**: Evaluating the product design based on the feedback of potential users.
5. **launch**: Sharing a finished version of the product with the public.

Detailed info on these stages present in -> [[reference slide2]]


