# Understand Design Sprints

General info [[General Info]]
In continuation of [[1.2.4]]

The goal of design sprints is to solve a critical design challenge through designing, prototyping, and testing ideas with users. we use design sprints to answer questions, define product directions, figure out cross-team strategies, and even build team culture. 

Design sprints generally include five phases: understand, ideate, decide, prototype, and test. We'll come back to these phases and investigate each one later. 

### Why design Sprints are useful
- design sprints save time.
- your team can cut the decision-making process down from several months to a single week. 
- Sprints also create an effective path to bring a product to market. 
- Sprints prioritize the user, putting their needs front and center. 
- Sprints allow you to fast forward into the future to test your product and get customer reactions before making any expensive decisions. 
## Five Phases of a Design Sprint
1. Understand
2. Ideate
3. Decide 
4. Prototype
5. Test


### More on Design Sprints
If you’re looking for a deeper dive into design sprints, why not take it up with the source? The Google [Design Sprint Kit](https://designsprintkit.withgoogle.com/) is an open-source resource for anyone who is learning about or running design sprints. The website includes [case studies](https://designsprintkit.withgoogle.com/case-studies) about design sprints that have solved all kinds of challenges, [templates for decks and activities](https://designsprintkit.withgoogle.com/resources/overview), and more.

In addition, check out this [article on Medium about the importance of design sprints](https://uxplanet.org/whats-a-design-sprint-and-why-is-it-important-f7b826651e09#:~:text=A%20Design%20Sprint%20is%20a,and%20testing%20ideas%20with%20customers.). Or, to be really inspired, read the book [Sprint](https://www.thesprintbook.com/book) by the creator of design sprints, and former Googler, Jake Knapp. Pay special attention to the chapters “Start at the End” to get an overview of how to establish long-term goals for a sprint, and “Liftoff” to motivate you to get started with your first sprint. Happy reading!

## An entry-level designer’s role

If you’re just starting out as a UX designer, you might also be curious to learn about an entry-level UX designer’s role in a sprint. We’ve got the inside scoop for you! Check out this post from the INKONIQ BLOG about [how a design sprint works at Google](https://medium.com/inkoniq-blog/inside-a-design-sprint-workshop-at-google-3950b1654f2) and this article on Medium about what [one UX designer learned from their very first design sprint](https://uxplanet.org/3-things-i-learned-from-my-first-design-sprint-ed5d2113afad).


#### Design sprint  retrospective

Every design sprint is an opportunity for your team to learn something new. This is especially useful for entry-level UX designers joining a design sprint for the first time. 

During a design sprint, the focus is on: 

    Understanding the design challenge 

    Ideating solutions 

    Deciding which solutions to build 

    Prototyping a few solutions 

    Testing those prototypes

Immediately following the design sprint, your team should hold a retrospective. A retrospective is a collaborative critique of the design sprint. The goal of a retrospective is to make sure everyone who took part in the sprint has the chance to give feedback and think about opportunities for improvement. 

The key questions to ask during a retrospective are: 

    What went well? 

    What can be improved? 

Answering these questions will help you work better as a team and as an individual. Make sure everyone feels empowered to share their experiences, and that personal identifiers, like race or gender, don’t prevent members from being honest.
