# Networking
in continuation from [[1.4.1]]
read more about this on [[reference slide5]]


Networking means interacting with other people to develop professional contacts
and learn more about a job industry. You can network online or in person.
Networking can be strictly professional. 
Don't be afraid to seek out a mentor. You might be surprised how happy
people are to help you. There are a lot of ways to find a mentor.
Is there someone you used to work with who you admire? Is there an event
coming up in your community where you can meet someone new? Or
should you send a message to the designer on Behance that you love to follow?
When you find a mentor and are ready to ask for their advice, be prepared.
It's helpful to have clear goals for the conversation. Some topics you might want
to ask a mentor about include
- Finding your first job
- developing specific skills or tools
- moving from other fields 
- specializing 
- reviews on projects 

## 10 template intros you can use
1. _Hi Mariah,_

_Although I’ve never gotten the chance to work with you directly, I’ve heard rave reviews about your sales techniques and ability to work with tough clients. Hopefully one of these days I can see you in action! ’Til then, I’ll catch you in the break room._

_Best,_

_Emily_

2. _Dear Colette,_

_I’m so excited to join the product development department. The team’s innovation and commitment to always finding the best testing methodologies is one of the reasons I was so drawn to work at Jones Wheeler. Looking forward to contributing._

_Best,_

_Ryan_

3. _Dear Mike,_

_It was such a pleasure working together at GX from 1999 to 2001. Your computer troubleshooting skills were the best in the office—can you imagine if we had to go back to working on those huge computers? If you have the chance, I’d love to catch up and learn more about what you’re doing in your new role at Microsoft._

_Best,_

_Alisha_

4. _Hey Joe,_

_I’m glad Aaron introduced us. Next time we run into each other, you’ll have to tell me more about what you do for Pfizer—I’ve always been interested in the healthcare industry._

_Cheers,_

_Doug_

5. _Dear Mark,_

_It was great speaking to you at the ESRI User Conference in San Diego last month. The mapping and charting work you do for airports sounded fascinating! I’d definitely like to stay up-to-date on your career._

_Thank you,_

_Lindsey_

6. _Dear Erin Holt,_

_I’m a college senior interested in working in marketing. For the last year, I’ve been following your work for Bryan & Associates, and it’s really impressed me. I particularly loved your campaign recent campaign in_ The Atlantic_—that multimedia component was totally unexpected and really effective. If you ever have 20 or so minutes, I’d love to hear more about how you started working in the field and what skills you believe are most relevant to the profession._

_Thank you so much,_

_Fina Beauchamp_

7. _Dear Ron,_

_I’m also in the Society of Professional Journalists, and I’ve really enjoyed reading your posts. The piece you shared a week or two ago about the future of data journalism was pretty thought-provoking. I’d love to keep in touch and learn more about your work._

_Best,_

_April_

8. _Dear Samantha Kennedy,_

_I found your profile on the Association of Professional Women page and wanted to reach out to discuss potentially working together. I’m a social media strategist with six years of experience and currently seeking new opportunities. I’d love to chat about whether my background might be a fit for any of your openings, and I’d also be happy to connect you with other professionals in my field._

_Looking forward to hearing from you,_

_Kendra Holloway_

9. _Dear Steve,_

_I see that you graduated from my current university, UC Berkeley—go Bears! I’m an aerospace engineering major and would be excited to hear more about your work with NASA. I’ll be in your area in a few weeks for vacation; if you have any free time, I’d love to meet up for coffee._

_Thanks so much,_

_Evan Beasley_

_P.S. Did you watch Saturday’s game against Stanford? That last quarter was so tense._

10. _Dear Sarah,_

_I was really impressed by the social media strategy you put together for Bella Bru Coffee Shop. I’m also a small business owner, and I’m interested in hiring you for a similar project. If you’re interested, let me know and we can arrange a phone call to discuss timeline, rates, scope, etc._

_Looking forward to possibly working with you,_

_Rebecca_




## Impostor Syndrome
Symptoms:
- Lack of self confidence
- Feeling like a fraud
- constant comparison to other people
- self doubt
- Not trusting your intuition and capabilities
- Negative self-talk
- Irrational fears of the future

This syndrome can come to life in many ways:
- Not applying for jobs unless you meet all the requirement
- Taking on extra work to make sure your doing it all
- Showing off compliments
there are countless reasons why u might feel this way.

## How to get out of this syndrome
Symptoms:
- Acknowledge the thoughts(identifying what makes you feel like that)
- Own your accomplishments (take credit for your hard work)
- Make a list (write down 5 things that show that your qualified for the job)
- Have a conversation (maybe with the mentor)
- Realize you are not alone

Read more about this in [[essentials  1]]